There have always been three types of usual organisational structures,
which are functional, we divide by functions,
divisional, we structure in different divisions,
matricial, which is the combination of the two above,
and by projects, which is the current trend.
We start with functional organisations.
In this case, what is it? It is very simple, we see it on the screen.
We are going to structure the organisation
being redundant the different functions that are within a company,
which is what you can understand by departments,
marketing, sales, finance, operations, systems, etc.
What are the benefits of this? Well, it has certain benefits.
They are simpler structures.
Usually, small companies are structured almost naturally.
What we achieve is that many synergies are generated,
because you get people to work who have some knowledge,
some skills, some very concrete experiences, and the same ones.
Those from the finance department, well, they all know about finance,
and they work together and they understand each other well.
That said, the simplicity we have seen, the synergies, etc.,
functional organisations have a big drawback,
and that is that you are structuring the organisation
in a way that is not aligned with the strategic objectives,
because in the end you are creating departments,
let's think about finance, marketing, etc.,
that measure their productivity,
they have objectives that they don't have to have in mind
the real or strategic objectives of the company.
I'm going to give you an example. Let's think about the product department.
The product department, in the end, will be measured by,
imagine, by producing X products a year, etc.
But it is very possible that they don't have in mind the client,
that they don't have in mind the client experience,
and that means that sometimes we use products
that you say, but what were they thinking about?
Because it is obvious that they had forgotten about the client,
and this is the result of that.
It is the result of the fact that the product design
did not take into account the client,
and it is usually a consequence of a functional structure.
Another disadvantage, which is closely related to this,
is that employees lose sight,
because what happens is that they are in their function,
but they lose sight of the strategic objectives
or how their work affects or contributes to the objectives,
and this generates dismotivation.
You become very specialist, very functional.
And the third disadvantage is that communication is very bad
between departments, because in the end,
you think about finance and marketing.
Well, they are different people, with different training,
with different objectives, that are not absolutely,
they have no motivation to understand each other,
in fact, they are not usually understood,
and when one has to get into the work of the other,
it is usually seen as if they are touching your nose,
in a way.
Now we are going to analyze the structures
or the divisional organizations.
In this case, what we do is organize ourselves
according to different divisions.
The divisions can be by geographies,
imagine that we structure the whole organization
according to the different countries in which we are,
or maybe it is a smaller law firm,
imagine that we have a headquarters in Madrid,
another in Barcelona and another in Valencia,
and we create divisions.
Or, for example, we can create divisions by products.
Imagine that we are a car manufacturer
and we have several models and we create divisions by models,
or by brands, we have several brands
and each brand works as a division.
Surely you understand the concept.
In addition, you have to take into account
that each division is almost like a small company,
because it has its objectives, its budget, etc.
The advantage of this, of the division
regarding the functions, is that you are structuring the company
in a way that is more aligned with the company's objectives.
You are not creating those threads
that people think only about their function,
their tasks, but lose perspective.
The company is more aligned with the objectives.
This is the great advantage of divisions.
The disadvantage is that inefficiencies can be generated.
I will explain it with an example.
We have divisions by countries.
By countries in Europe, imagine.
We have Spain, we have France, we have Italy, we have the UK.
Each one works as a small company
that has its objectives, its resources, its budgets, etc.
And its functional departments are also within each division.
Well, we have marketing in each of the countries.
We have X marketing employees.
They also work in an autonomous way.
Those from Spain have nothing to do with those from the UK.
Well, here are being generated first, some duplicities in costs.
Because you can have people who are duplicated.
But it is not only a matter of duplicity in costs,
it is a matter of not generating a joint learning.
Imagine that a very powerful initiative is launched in Spain
that improves the customer experience.
But it is being worked for Spain,
it is not being worked for all of Europe.
And it is very likely that later extrapolating those initiatives
to other countries, well, it takes a long time,
you have to overcome many barriers, etc.
We have already seen how we can organize ourselves by functions and divisions.
Well, matrices, matrix organizations,
what they do is a mix of the two.
A matrix has two dimensions.
We are going to structure ourselves by functions and divisions.
And each person is going to have two bosses.
He is going to report to his superior or his functional boss.
Imagine that you work in the marketing department,
you report to the CMO, but you also have a boss who can be,
well, imagine, the CEO in a certain country.
Or the person in charge of a product.
What are the benefits of this?
Well, basically what we are trying to do is to combine the advantages
of the two types of organizations.
We are going to make the organization be oriented to the results of the company
because we are structuring ourselves based on products
or business lines or countries, etc.
But we generate certain synergies because we have the functions that are across
and what they do is provide service to everyone.
And I'm going to give you an example.
Remember that we talked about having divisions in each country.
We take the marketing department and centralize it.
And we have a marketing department for all of Europe
that provides service to all divisions, to the different countries.
Well, it's easy to understand that many synergies are going to be generated like this,
that we are going to avoid duplicities.
Maybe we need fewer resources and we can also put them to work
in initiatives or in providing support to all divisions,
so the impact is going to be much greater.
One of the disadvantages of the matrix can be that the power line is unclear.
It's easier when you know you report to a single boss
than when you report to two bosses.
And certain tensions can be generated there in some cases.
But what is clear is that almost all the big organizations
have tended in recent years to structure themselves through matrices.
Therefore, it is obvious that the benefits are greater than the disadvantages.
And finally, we are going to talk about the organization by projects,
which is a very clear and unstoppable trend,
which allows us to be more adaptive, to be more agile,
it allows us to launch many projects, to be more flexible.
So what is this about?
Regardless of your structure, whether it is functional, matrix, divisional, I don't care,
what you do is create projects, which are temporary organizations
formed by people who can be in different departments,
even in different countries,
that you put them to work with a common mission,
with a common and temporary goal.
One of the advantages of organizing yourself by projects,
in addition to being more agile, is that you encourage the motivation of employees,
because it is more motivating to work with a specific mission
during a specific period of time and know that you are going to contribute to that,
and that it also has a huge impact on the organization,
than to spend your whole life going to your workplace and having your tasks
and not knowing very well what the impact of what you are doing is.
It is very clear that people work more motivated like this,
with temporary missions and by projects.